okay here we are in my TDI we've
installed our scan gage - and what we're
gonna do is we're gonna go for a little
Drive I've cleared the odometer or the
trip meter and we're gonna just
illustrate the difference between the
190 on the water gage when the car
indicates it's 190 and when the scan
gauged it's 190 and this is kind of
important for our switch over to a
vegetable oil because in general I
generally wait or used to wait anyway
until the meter reached 190 on the water
gauge and then I would throw the switch
remote on bed.you from there so let's
see what happens I'm gonna start the car
and I'm also going to start my timer and
we're gonna go for a little Drive
I will check this guy right now we'll
check it for gauge and you can see that
the water temperature is currently 51
degrees if this camera would focus you'd
see that's the bottom right 51 it's
gonna jump 67 and it's probably the 70s
here it's not real not real warm 51 is
more accurate jumps around sometimes but
it generally hangs on the one number so
I would say it's about 51 degrees the
car sat overnight hasn't been driven
that's usually what I find it's around
50 54 degrees 51 when it sits overnight
and I haven't touched it all day so
we're gonna go for a ride it's early
afternoon again it's in the 70s and I'll
check back we feel a little bit ok so
we've been driving for 8 minutes 12
seconds I've gone about 2.6 miles and
right now my temperature gauge has be
settled in to 190
and the water temperature gauge is 146
on the scan gauge and this is generally
what I find happens and my limited
testing for the past three weeks I've
had the scan gauge
I find that when this meter says 190 I
am basically at 150 and according to the
stand gage and the distance at a time
I've traveled really isn't that
important that the the important thing
is the difference between these two
meters because if you have a manual
system as I did and I based everything
upon this 194 the switch over I was
obviously switching over earlier than I
should have
now what's going to happen is this gauge
is going to pretty much stay where it is
but as I continue to the drive the scan
gauge will get up to 190 so let's see
how long it takes for that to happen so
here we are we've driven a total of 12
minutes and 53 seconds you may not be
able to see that and I've driven 4.5
miles and my temperature gauge just
about a minute ago reached to 190 on the
scan gauge I think as a general rule
that if you were to have a manual
vegetable oil system you should at least
at 50% more time for the switchover
after the temperature gauge on the car
reaches 190